### 3-4-1 automation
  
This automation pulls together all relevant ICD-10 classification codes off NOMIS to display their mortality rate per 100,000 disaggregated by country, region and sex. Currently region age dissagregation starts from 30 years and over, with all other disaggregations starting from 0. 
  
### Instructions to run update ###
1. *UK SDG data team:* (once this code has been reviewed and is on the main branch) Go to Jemalex > sdg_data_updates.    
   *Others:* Checkout sdg_data_updates main branch to your local repository.     
2. Open sdg_data_updates.Rproj  
3. Change indicator folder name (`indicator <- "3-4-1"`)  
4. If config.R does not exist in the 3-4-1 folder, create it from the example_config.R file  
5. Check the configs are correct. The nomis links should not need to be edited, unless you want to add or remove occupation codes. 
6. Check that the compile.tables.R script sources the correct config file (for an update it should call config.R. 
To run the example data and get example output, it should be example_config.R).   
7. Open update_indicator_main.R  
8. Click Source (by default this is in top right of the script window)  
9. Check for messages in the console. When the script is run a file titled '3-4-1.csv' will be saved in 3-4-1 > Output 
   Use this file for the Indicator csv.  
10. A file called <date>_3-4-1_checks.html will also be in the outputs folder. Read through this as a QA of the csv.  

### Instructions for metadata ###
The last updated date is not generated by the script. However you can get this from the bottom of the review selections section
on Nomis for [*mortality totals links*](nomis link used in the configs). 

  
### Generation of nomis links ###
The nomis links should not need to be regenerated unless we decide to change underlying cause selections or alter other dissagregations.
If nomis is being used without an account, the downloaded dataset is cropped at 25000 rows. Link generation will depend on whether you are using an account. It is suggested to ensure you are signed into a NOMIS, but the code is set up for where this is not the case. 

The current nomis links were generated as follows:

#### Mortality rate numbers ####
From Nomis, select Query > Life Events > Mortality statistics - underlying cause, sex and age.

female link selections:
   Geography: Countries (all)
   Date: All years
   Age: All years (except for regions where currently 30 and over)
   Rates: Age-standardised mortality rate only 
   Sex: Females only 
   Underlying Cause: Full ICD-10 Clasification > C00-C97, E10-E14, I00-I99,       J30-39, J40-J47, J60-J70, J80-J84, J85-J86, J90-94, J95, J96, J98 and LC47
  
  
all but female link selections:  
   Geography: Countries (all)  
   Date: All years  
   Age: All years (except for regions where currently 30 and over)  
   Rates: Age-standardised mortality rate only   
   Sex: Males only   
   Underlying Cause: Full ICD-10 Clasification > C00-C97, E10-E14, I00-I99, J30-39, J40-J47, J60-J70, J80-J84, J85-J86, J90-94, J95, J96, J98 and LC47  
     

  
To generate link go to format/layout and select API. Then in 'Download data' right click on the csv link and copy link
Check last updated date [here](https://www.nomisweb.co.uk/query/construct/summary.asp?mode=construct&version=0&dataset=168)



  
