### ODA indicator updates

## Introduction
There are multiple ODA indicators that use the same source table. It therefore makes sense to run all these automations at the same time. It is possible to run only a subset of these indicators by removing the indicators you do not wish to run from the indicator list in the config file.  
The full list of indicators, and whether they are based on net ODA or amounts extended is:
#### Net ODA  
-  1-a-1
-  2-a-2  
-  3-b-2  
-  7-a-1  
-  9-a-1  
-  17-9-1  
-  17-19-1  
#### Amounts extended
-  4-b-1  
-  6-a-1  
-  8-a-1  


The following ODA indicators are not included in this automation as they use a different source: 10-b-1, 17-2-1, 17-3-1, 15-a-1, and 15-b-1.  
  
Additional source data are:  
- exchange rate and deflator data for converting GBP to constant USD (used in several indicators)  
- GNI data for calculating ODP as a % of GNI (used for 1-a-1)  
  
## Instructions  
For the UK data team, all files and folders mentioned below are in Jemalex > sdg_data_updates 
  
1. Download and save the ODA, Deflators, and Exchange rates data in 'Input' in the ODA folder (if the Input folder doesn't exist, make it). See [Data sources](#data-sources) for more information.  
2. Open the `sdg_data_updates.Rproj` from inside RStudio. 
4. If it exists, open the `config.R` file in ODA (you can do this in the 'Files' panel in RStudio (usually a tab in the bottom right panel). 
If not, save `example_config.R` as `config.R` in ODA.  
5. Check the configurations are correct for the files you have saved, and if not correct them and save `config.R`.  
     1. `filename_newdat` is the name of file (including the .csv extension) containing ODA data that you have saved in the Input file.  
     2. `filename_2017` is the name of file containing area data on certified woodland area FOR EVERY YEAR. Check that 'AREALHECT' is one of the column headings (case is not important).
     3. Check that areas are given in millions of hectares in the above two tabs. If not, the calculation will need to be changed
6. Open `update_indicator_main.R` (from `sdg_data_updates.Rproj`) and click 'Source' button to run the script (top right corner of the script panel).  
7. Outputs will be saved in the Outputs folder in 15-1-1 (which the script will create if it doesn't already exist).  
8. An html file will also be created in the Outputs folder. This contains some basic checks and also shows all plots, which should show up any major issues. 
**Please check this file before copying to the csv**
9. IMPORTANT: the code does not run any checks on the footnotes - please check the footnotes in the source files for information that may need to be added to the metadata.


### Data sources
Data are imported into R in a variety of ways:  
- the ODA dataset is manually downloaded and saved as a csv. It is then imported into R from the Input folder
- the deflator and exchange rate data are manually downloaded and saved as xlsx files
- GNI data are imported using the OECD API. 
  
#### ODA data
The main data required for all the indicators in the ODA folder are the same table 'Statistics on International Development: final UK aid spend'. This can be found on the [Overseas Aid Effectiveness page](https://www.gov.uk/international/overseas-aid-effectiveness) under 'Research and Statistics'.  
  
Download the most recent 'final' table and save it in ODA > Input as a **csv**    
  
#### Deflators and exchange rates
Deflators and exchange rates are taken from the [OECD Development finance data page](https://www.oecd.org/dac/financing-sustainable-development/development-finance-data/). The required tables are in the data tables section e.g.:  
-  Deflators for Resource Flows from DAC Countries (2019=100).xls
-  Annual Exchange Rates for DAC Donor Countries from 1960 to 2020.xls
  
Download both tables and save them in ODA > Input as **xlsx** files (NOT xls)
  
#### GNI (Gross National Income) data  
The API link for GNI data should not need to be generated again. 
However, for information only, it was generated by going to [OECD.Stat](https://stats.oecd.org/Index.aspx?ThemeTreeId=3#), searching for DAC1 in 'Find in Themes', opening 'Total flows by donor', selecting 'GNI' in Aid type, and 'United Kingdom' in DAC countries. The sdmx data url was accessed by going to Export > SDMX.


